>> Mike Adams: Welcome
to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams, the
Editor of Naturalnews.com.
>> Dr. Edward Group:
And I'm Ed Group,
the Owner of
Globalhealingcenter.com.
>> Mike: And today, the episode
is called Home Health Makeover,
and what we've assembled for you
is a huge collection of products
to avoid toxic products and
then products to replace them
with that are far
better for your health.
Ed.
>> Dr. Group: Absolutely, Mike.
I mean most homes are extremely
toxic and we've done episodes
on that before, but we get
the question all the time,
what do we do about it?
How do we recognize
these toxic compounds?
So today, Mike and I took many
of the common household items
that every house has and we're
going to go through them one
by one and kind of explain
to you why they're toxic,
maybe read off some
of the ingredients
so you can understand
those, but most importantly,
we're going to give
you natural solutions.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: And
natural replacements,
because it's really a replace
this with that type scenario.
That's what you need to do.
The next time you go and
purchase these cleaners,
laundry detergents,
skincare products;
anything that you're going
to be putting on your body,
around your body, in your home,
to make that informed decision
so you can buy something
that's actually healthy
or non-toxic instead
of something that's going
to cause you damage.
>>Mike: And the good news, Ed,
is that there healthy
alternatives for everything
out there and by the way, let's
start with laundry detergent
because I've been breathing the
fumes [laughter] of this box
of Tide, which is why I have
it in a bag, but it's so strong
with these solvents and
perfumes, it's actually coming
through the bag and
I'm getting fumigated
by this just standing here.
So let me show you this first.
This is a -- probably the most
famous conventional laundry
detergent, Tide.
Everybody knows about Tide.
Now, it's full of
perfumes and so I'm going
to get it out of the way.
In fact, bye, and show you
something that's far safer.
>> Dr. Group: Well
first of all, Mike,
it's more than just perfumes.
It's...
>> Mike: Oh yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...actual
chemicals and oxidants,
and the sad thing about it
is, they're not required
to list these chemicals
on the label.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: So we
really don't even know.
It could be 50, 60, 100,
200 in different chemicals.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Think about it.
If you have oil on your
clothes, if you have dirt
on your clothes, if you spill
coffee on your clothes, I mean,
think of all the
different things
that people get on
their clothes...
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...not
to mention you know,
their clothes are exposed to the
air quality, the fossil fuels.
They're walking around all day.
You have to have some
serious chemical cleaners
in those laundry detergents
in order to get clothes clean.
>> Mike: But you know, what's
really in that detergent,
it's frightening to me.
It's so powerful.
I have a personal story for
you about that, but you are,
in effect, bathing your
clothes in those chemicals
and they stay in the clothing.
They don't -- a rinse cycle
doesn't get it all out.
Not only are you then flushing
those chemicals down the drain
and downstream and into
the water supply which goes
into the rivers and the oceans,
but you're also then putting
those clothes on your body.
And then if you are walking
-- or maybe it's a hot day,
or you're working out at a
gym, you are then absorbing --
you're making the clothes wet
and you're absorbing those
chemicals into your skin.
And just to let you know
how these powerful these are
at being absorbed, I had
a family member one time
that drove to Texas to visit
me, and he brought in a couple
of gallon jugs of water that he
had on the road for us to drink.
So he opened it up
and poured it out.
We started drinking the water.
I took one sip, and
I said, "Holy cow,
that tastes like
laundry detergent."
And he said, "How can it
taste like laundry detergent?"
Turned out in his RV, he had put
the gallons of water next to...
>> Dr. Group: Oh.
>> Mike: ...Tide.
They were just physically
next to each other.
The Tide detergent had gone
into, just through osmosis
through the plastic,
through the air.
It had gone into the water
and it made the water taste
like laundry detergent.
That's how potent these solvents
or fragrances really are.
It's unbelievable.
>> Dr. Group: It's
something so simple
that you would never
think about.
I mean, people wash
their clothes.
They dry their clothes
and then all of a sudden,
they have all these
chemicals in their clothes.
They sweat, and all that
stuff goes through the skin.
The skin is the largest
organ in the body.
So if I was to say
hey, "How do you feel
about rubbing all these
chemicals on the largest organ
in your body, would
you do that?"
>> Mike: [Laughter].
>> Dr. Group: Somebody would
hopefully they would say no,
but that's what's happening
and not only that...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...with the dry
cleaning, I know we talked
about that in one of
the other episodes,
but the dry cleaning is
also toxic chemicals.
>> Mike: And people dress
their babies in these clothes.
They wash their baby
clothes in these chemicals
and put it on their babies.
You know, when I walk through
a neighborhood, you know here
in Texas, they have these big
neighborhoods like KB Home type
of neighborhoods in Houston
and other major cities.
If I walk through a
neighborhood, what do you smell?
You smell laundry detergent
and dryer sheets being vented
out of every other home down
the road -- down the street,
you know, just walking
on the sidewalk.
For me, that experience
is I know that I'm walking
through a neighborhood of people
who are poisoning
their children.
That's not an exaggeration.
And I can smell it and I can't
be near it because I don't --
obviously, I don't want
to inhale that poison.
So let's get to the solution.
>> Dr. Group: Well the sad
thing you mentioned too is
the environment.
They're putting that
stuff back into the air...
>> Mike: Yes, yes.
>> Dr. Group: ...and they're
breathing it, so even though...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...you use natural
stuff, you have to breathe just
like tobacco smoke, and fossil
fuel, and everything else
that you're not actually
doing it,
but you have to breathe it in.
>> Mike: Right.
And it was funny is a
lot of these people,
they're really delusional
because they may give money
to breast cancer research.
They may do recycling.
They might drive a Prius and
they think they're living green,
and then they're soaking
their clothing in toxic,
cancer causing chemicals
and putting it on their kids
and venting that stuff into
their local neighborhood.
It's they're delusional, you
know, so don't be delusional.
Understand that you
need to get the toxins
out of your life everywhere.
You can't be incongruent in your
behavior, thinking you're green
on one hand while
you're poisoning yourself
and your children
on the other hand.
It doesn't make any sense.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: So the solution.
There are several
different brands.
Ecos is a brand that I use.
This is my favorite laundry
detergent, just happens to be.
I don't have any special
affiliation with this brand,
but we've got Seventh Generation
back here, another great brand.
They're -- and if you want to
get something quote natural
at the grocery store, you
can also get baking soda,
which can be mixed with Borax,
and that's a great
natural detergent.
You can also use soap nuts.
This is a soap nut
concentrate product right here.
There are many different
soap nut products.
It's made from the soap nut
berry, which grows on trees
and they extract the
saponins -- or saponins.
I've heard it pronounced
both ways.
But it's -- that's the
soap in the soap berry
that can clean your laundry.
So those are some
of the solutions.
>> Dr. Group: I love
the soap berries.
That's what I use, and I
mean it's incredible the way
that it cleans, and
it's non-toxic.
And then you know, the other
factor too is most people are
using the public water with
the fluoride and the chlorine
to wash their clothes.
>> Mike: Yeah, that's right.
>> Dr. Group: That's a whole
other story, right there.
>> Mike: [Laughter].
>> Dr. Group: But you know,
I also use the soap nuts
as a dishwashing
detergent, as well.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And that works
great on the dishes, so.
>> Mike: Oh, and
finally, I've also --
I noticed we've got
some Dr. Bronner's.
If you have had one
product in your household
that is the multi-purpose
cleaner for laundry,
for kitchen counters,
for bathrooms,
for everything, Dr. Bronner's.
I mean, you can wash
your hair...
>> Dr. Group: You can, you can.
>> Mike: ...you can wash your
laundry with Dr. Bronner's.
This is -- I can't live
without Dr. Bronner's soap.
I mean, you got to have this,
and this is super clean.
It's a fair trade.
It's got no crazy artificial
chemicals or fragrance in it,
and the company just rocks.
I mean Dr. Bronner's and
David Bronner, a huge activist
for GMO labeling and they
helped get hemp seeds legalized
in America so that we can
now have hemp seed products
and super foods.
The company's great,
product's fantastic.
>> Dr. Group: It is.
It's one of those all-purpose
cleansers that you can use
for everything; talking
about soap and hand soap.
I picked this up, and this
is a very common hand soap.
>> Mike: What is
-- what is that?
>> Dr. Group: This
is Dial Gold...
>> Mike: Oh, great.
>> Dr. Group: ...hand
soap with moisturizer,
and even says doctor
recommended.
Number one doctor recommended.
I don't know where these
doctors are coming from.
>> Mike: Are those
the same doctors
that recommended
you smoke Camels.
>> Dr. Group: Well these
are the same doctors too
that absolutely have no
idea about chemicals,
and want you coming
back into their office
so they can prescribe you more
medications and skin creams
for all the reactions
this is going to cause.
>> Mike: Crazy.
>> Dr. Group: But
listen to this.
Sodium laurel sulfate.
I mean, you got, you know
you have to be a chemist
to pronounce some
of these things.
>> Mike: That's true, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: You know, I
can't even pronounce them
and I actually have a
background in chemistry.
>> Mike: [Laughter].
>> Dr. Group: Vetane,
sodium chloride,
which is salt, PPG, hydroxo.
I mean, DMCM, tetrasodium,
citric acid, yellow number five,
red number four, which
are extremely toxic dyes.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: I mean think
about the society that we live
in right now and how many times
people wash their hands every
single day when they
go to the bathroom.
I mean, it's basically --
I know mothers that make
their kids wash their hands
like non-stop, sometimes
like 50 to 100 times a day.
>> Mike: Which is
not a bad practice...
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: ...but you're talking
about they're putting
this crazy soap
on their skin 50
times a day and maybe
with the antibacterial
chemicals too.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, and
it's not just hand soap,
but all the soaps like this.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: I mean the
shampoos that we're going
to talk about, the bar
soaps, the body lotion soaps
that people are using.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And again, Mike,
think of how many tiny cells
that you have covering
your whole body, your skin.
I mean think of the
surface area of your skin,
and when you put this on,
how many chemicals you
absorb on a daily basis.
>> Mike: You know that's
a really good point
because the position of the FDA
is that chemicals don't have
to be listed by these companies,
because the FDA assumes
that they don't go
through your skin;
that absorption doesn't happen.
This is the FDA's
official position.
But it's false you know,
scientifically invalid.
It's logically twisted.
Of course things get
absorbed through your skin.
You know, your skin
absorbs all kinds of things.
It's porous.
So these companies are getting
away with, in my opinion,
you know, poisoning people by
not listing the ingredients
or using ingredients that
have never been safety tested,
never been approved by
the FDA for use on humans.
And I want to mention this too.
Notice the color
of this Dial soap.
It's an amber type of color.
>> Dr. Group: A golden
kind of a color.
>> Mike: Notice the
color of this Listerine.
This is their blue and then
they've got their yellow version
of Listerine.
Every product that is made
by the chemical companies
is artificially colored.
You'll notice that
consumers have been taught
or indoctrinated to believe that
certain colors are associated
with certain products.
So what color is
a window cleaner?
>> Dr. Group: Well,
you look outside,
the sky is blue so
it must be blue.
>> Mike: Got to be blue, right?
So but the blue is synthetic.
Its blue dyes.
There's no reason why window
cleaner has to be blue.
So that's why if you look at
natural products like this,
this is a natural floor cleaner.
It's actually clear.
The chemistry of cleaning
doesn't need coloring to work.
In fact, this product works
better than any you know,
synthetic floor cleaner
that you could imagine,
but it doesn't have
to have color in it.
So consumers are indoctrinated
with these fake color messages
that they are trained to
use in purchasing decisions.
>> Dr. Group: Yes,
and I totally agree.
I mean, this actually
looks clean to me.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: I like
this clear...
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: ...clean look.
>> Mike: Whoa, here we go.
And cleaning the table.
>> Dr. Group: And you know,
I would much rather use this
than this right here because
if -- this is a creamy,
nasty looking color...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...and
I tell you what...
>> Mike: Yeah, don't
want to deal with that.
>> Dr. Group: ...there
are so many chemicals
in these floor cleaning
products.
Carpet cleaning products...
>> Mike: Oh, man.
>> Dr. Group: ...you know,
powders that you put all over...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...your carpet.
This right here is for
floors, shines and protects.
What it doesn't say though is
it outgasses toxic chemicals
and for how long it's on there.
And you know what?
I can't even find an
ingredient list on here.
Of course it says it's poison,
keep out of reach of children,
and there's a number to call on
there, Poison Control Center.
>> Mike: Well, that's the thing.
>> Dr. Group: So.
>> Mike: If its poison and you
got to keep it out of the reach
of children, why would you
clean your floors with it?
If you have kids, you
know, they're going to come
into contact with the
floor obviously, and pets.
I mean, you're kids are going to
pet your pets and they're going
to absorb or be exposed
to those chemicals
that are in these products.
So you got to change your
mindset, and I know most
of you watching this
because you're Gaiam members.
You already get this.
But what we're hoping to
do is give you more ideas.
There might be some
areas of your home
where you are you know, doing
the right things; your laundry,
your cooking pans and so on,
but there might be other areas
where you could make
improvements.
So let's keep going
on the list here.
>> Dr. Group: Let's keep going.
Let me move
these floor cleaners
out of the way here.
>> Mike: Yeah, yeah.
This one actually smells good,
by the way.
>> Dr. Group: And we were
talking about just one thing
that we have here Mike and I
picked up, and this kind of goes
in the soap and the
body lotion things is,
how many people do you
know that have dry skin?
How many people do you know that
always lather, and mostly women,
I say you know, because that's
the ones that I talk to most
of the time, that
lather these creams
and these body lotions all over
their body every single day.
>> Mike: Wow.
>> Dr. Group: And you know what?
They usually do it when they
come out of a hot shower
and what happens is when
you heat the body...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...all
the skin pores open
up so what you're doing is
just loading these chemicals
right in.
And here we have glycerin,
stearic acid, glycol stearate,
a lot of petroleum base.
I mean it's just like rubbing
oil on your skin that goes
into the car actually.
Isopropyl pometate.
There's nobody that can
tell you what happens
when you put all these
chemicals together.
There's chain reactions
that happen.
There's reactions between these
chemicals that go into your skin
and like we talk about,
you know we're here
to give you solutions.
What really amazed me though
is when I started looking
at baby care products...
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...and this is a
Johnson & Johnson baby lotion.
And in this lotion
you have over
30 carcinogenic chemicals.
Each one of them in here
is a cancer causing agent.
>> Mike: There is --
the name baby lotion is
completely contrived.
There's nothing characteristic
in the product
that would qualify it
to be used on a baby,
and there's no FDA requirement
that something labeled
for babies is determined
to be safe on babies.
So watch out.
Also, children's food, kids'
food in the grocery stores,
some of the most toxic
food you could imagine.
So in personal care products
as well as food and groceries,
watch out for baby products
or kids' or children's products
because those are
often the worst.
>> Dr. Group: And you know what,
baby skin is even more sensitive
and if you rub this
on a baby's skin,
it's going to cause
an immune reaction,
which babies' immune
systems are just developing,
and they can't handle a lot
of toxins coming in, bacteria,
any type of chemical coming in.
The thing is people
need to learn how
to read the labels
a little bit more...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...because they
don't understand, because I know
for a fact, if I went up to
any mother and I said I'm going
to mix this PEG, I'm going to
mix a little oil from your car
into this solution right here
and I'm going to
mix brake fluid.
You know these 40
propylene glycol anti-freeze
in there and red dye number 13.
Do you mind if I put
that on your baby's skin?
I mean unless they are
psychotic or something, they --
I'm sure they would
say, "No way."
Yet because of the bright,
nice looking pink bottle...
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: ...it must
be safe for my baby.
It actually says
clinically proven mildness.
Number one choice of hospitals.
That just tells you...
>> Mike: Ugh.
>> Dr. Group: I mean, can
you believe that?
>> Mike: No.
>> Dr. Group: Number one
choice of hospitals?
>> Mike: Well look.
Hospitals have McDonalds
in the hospital, all right.
There's the heart
surgery hospital
where you can get
McDonalds before
and after your heart surgery.
It's good for repeat
business, of course.
Hospitals, for a long time,
they wanted women not to engage
in breast feeding, and
they would feed infants
infant formula.
Now that's changing
in some hospitals,
but it hasn't been very long
that it's been changing.
It was all infant formula,
like breast milk is bad.
And if you look at what
these products do to babies,
they also cause asthma.
>> Dr. Group: And eczema and
psoriases and...
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: ...and rash on
their skin
and then they go
get another chemical
for the rash on the skin...
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: ...that was caused
by the chemicals in the lotion
that they put on to begin with.
And I'll tell you
what, for my kids,
I'll tell you a very simple
and easy skin lotion
that you can make...
>> Mike: Let's
get this out there.
>> Dr. Group: half, 50% organic
hemp oil, and 50% coconut,
raw virgin coconut
oil, which is a solid.
>> Mike: Good idea.
>> Dr. Group: You melt
it on low heat.
You can even add a little bit
of lemon grass oil in there,
a little tea tree oil
in there that you --
which is great for
baby rash, diaper rash.
And then you don't
heat it up too much.
You just heat it to
the coconut oil melts,
and then you mix the 50/50
hemp and coconut oil.
You can put a little olive
oil in there too if you want.
And then it kind of solidifies
and you keep in a glass
in the refrigerator,
a little glass thing
and then you use that.
>> Mike: Absolutely.
>> Dr. Group: That way your baby
is getting all fresh, organic,
cold-pressed oils on their
skin, and their skin thrives.
>> Mike: You don't want
the Vaseline on your kids,
a petroleum based product?
Look at that.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
>> Mike: I mean,
it's incredible.
The other thing that
people have to realize is
that these companies -- there's
only a handful of companies
that manufacture all this stuff,
and these companies spend most
of their money on
marketing and propaganda,
because very little money
goes into the actual product.
The ingredients are
dirt cheap, you know.
A barrel of oil is a
hundred bucks or something.
You can make a lot of Vaseline
out of a barrel of oil.
So they don't spend money on
the product, they spend money
on the propaganda to
convince gullible people,
impressionable people, who
aren't critical thinkers --
usually, that these
products are super healthy.
They might have advertisements
on television
with really healthy babies
and healthy looking people,
happy people, sunshine,
whatever,
but they're actually
poisoning you.
This is dryer sheets.
This one happens to
be the Gain brand,
and we have this quarantined
in this polypropylene
water tight vessel
because now it's permanently
in there, by the way.
I'm not letting it out
>> Dr. Group: It's
probably going
to start melting here
pretty soon in the case.
>> Mike: Yeah, because we can't
stand the smell of this stuff,
but we want to be able to show
it to people on shows like this.
So that...
>> Dr. Group: By the way...
>> Mike: ...is in quarantine.
>> Dr. Group: ...a
natural replacement
for fabric softeners, we
have these little cotton,
a 100% organic washcloths,
and we just put a couple drops
of a good essential oil on
those and throw it in the dryer.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: I mean,
you know...
>> Mike: Use vinegar on cloth.
>> Dr. Group: Lavender oil...
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...on a little
cloth and it's in there
with the dryer and your
clothes smell like --
that's natural lavender,
natural lemon grass,
natural citrus flavor,
whatever you want to do
and you don't have
all those chemicals.
>> Mike: All right.
Next one is air fresheners.
There's been a lot
of research actually
on air fresheners causing
asthma, causing headaches,
causing different kinds of
problems that people have.
You think about it.
You're taking toxic chemicals
and you are intentionally
putting them into the air
that you and your
family are breathing.
I say ditch these
air fresheners.
We should probably
quarantine this one too.
And instead, use
something like this.
This is a natural
orange citrus spray.
It's just made from
citrus peel extracts.
>> Dr. Group: Mm-hmm.
>> Mike: I mean there's
nothing artificial in it,
and you can use essential
oils as well.
If you want your house to
smell better, you know,
use something like that.
>> Dr. Group: An aroma
therapy diffuser or something.
>> Mike: Aroma therapy.
>> Dr. Group: And
you know another big thing is,
I tell people all the time
you know, you have to get rid
of the aluminum in your life.
Aluminum is everywhere and you
wonder why women have fibrous
cystic breast disease.
You know, that's an
iodine deficiency,
but it's also aluminum
accumulates.
You know you put on all this
deodorant right under your arm.
It's a very sensitive area.
Everything gets absorbed
really easily under your arm.
It goes straight into
your lymphatic system.
Sometimes you get a swelling
of your lymphatic
system under your arm.
And these deodorants
are extremely toxic
because they include aluminum,
the toxic form of aluminum.
And not only aluminum,
that's the active ingredient,
but we don't even know
the anti-perspirants
and all the other...
>> Mike: Lots of chemicals.
>> Dr. Group: ...you know, the
scenting agents that they use
in there, and it's extra
effective protection,
but it's also extra effective
disease causing agent
at the same time.
>> Mike: Scary stuff.
>> Dr. Group: So natural
replacements, you know,
for the people that live on a
raw food diet and everything,
I mean I went on
raw for a long time
and I had zero body
odor because I was...
>> Mike: Yeah,
diet's so clean, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: ...I never
needed to use deodorant.
And I barely
even use it now.
If I do, I'll use a spray like
this, which is just a natural --
it's paraben free,
propylene glycol free.
It's unscented.
There's no perfumes in it.
It's basically just a salt mix.
It's got some aloe in it.
Mineral salts.
>> Mike: It's great. Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: I mean mineral
salts work really good.
Also, I like this one.
This is from Dr.
Hauschka, Deodorant Fresh,
and it's got all kinds of
organic ingredients in it.
It's fairly expensive,
but you know what,
I'd rather pay a little bit
more than have to pay later
because I'm going to
the doctor's office
because I have some lymphoma or
something like that due to...
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: ...the deodorant.
So the point...
>> Mike: Super.
>> Dr. Group: ...of the matter
is, don't use toxic deodorants.
Replace your toxic deodorants
with natural alternatives
like salt or any
organic, natural deodorant
that you can put under your arm.
>> Mike: Absolutely.
That's critical.
Now, let's go to this;
insect repellent.
I've seen people spray
this insect repellent all
over their exposed skin.
They spray it on their face,
their neck, their arms,
their legs and then they
think oh, I'm protected.
I can go -- and then they'll
put sunscreen chemicals
on top of that.
It's unbelievable.
People just -- they
poison themselves to no end
to go outside, you know.
Really? Is nature that dangerous
these days that you got
to coat your kid in this stuff?
>> Dr. Group: Well look,
skin cancer started
to develop once we started
putting stuff on our skin.
>> Mike: I'm telling you,
it's not the sun
causing the skin cancer;
it's all the crap
people put on their skin.
So forget insect repellent
that's based on chemicals
like DEET and use
natural insect repellants.
This one's called
Organic Bug Spray.
It's based on clove oils
and lemon grass oils and...
>> Dr. Group: Eucalyptus.
>> Mike: Yeah, eucalyptus.
Here's another one.
Citronella oils.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
>> Mike: These oils
are pleasant.
They're safe for
the environment.
They are derived in using
safe manufacturing methods
versus DEET, which has to
come from a chemical plant
that might explode one day and
have another type of you know,
Bhopal disaster like
happened in India.
It killed a lot of people.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
Extremely toxic and
poisonous you know, and listen,
mothers, I know you've
gone through this before
because the teachers
in the classrooms have
bottles of this...
>> Mike: Oh.
>> Dr. Group: and they spray the
kids down before they go outside
to play on the playground.
I have to actually
write a letter
and my kid has organic bug
spray that he carries with him
to school and the teachers are
instructed to make sure they use
that and only that on my child
over there, and I know my kid --
I ask my kid, and
he goes, "Yeah,
the teachers spray every kid
down with this stuff before they
go out to recess every day."
>> Mike: Unbelievable.
>> Dr. Group: It's about making
the difference and talking
to the schools and talking to
the teachers and say listen,
this is -- these are chemicals.
>> Mike: How is that not child
abuse, you know, to spray a kid
with chemicals like that.
But let's move on.
Weed killer; here's a safe
weed killer called Avenger,
like a super hero.
>> Dr. Group: And that
will replace the Round
Up that you have sitting in --
or your friends have sitting
in the garage that they use
to kill all the weeds
in their yard.
>> Mike: Exactly, and the
status to look for is OMRI.
This is a -- this
means it's safe to use
on organic food production.
So if you look for this
little symbol here...
>> Dr. Group: OMRI listed.
>> Mike: Yeah.
Anything that's OMRI
listed is going
to be safe, or mostly safe.
I mean there are a few things
that maybe I wouldn't want
to use a lot, but they're
way safer than anything else.
And then that same
company makes this product,
which is an insect killer.
So instead of having
poison traps and chemicals
around your kitchen
or your house
if you've got insects
invading your house;
maybe you have ants coming
in, you can use this.
It's based on essential oils.
It's safe to be around.
It's safe for children.
You can also just -- you
can really make your own.
You can just use Borax and
you can mix Borax with honey,
for example, and ants eat that.
It kills the ants.
You don't need deadly chemicals.
It's not a big deal.
You know...
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: ...the common
theme here Ed,
is that you can make a lot of
your own products very simply
by just combining
two ingredients.
>> Dr. Group: You can.
>> Mike: But the industry
wants you to think you can't,
that you have to depend on them
and keep buying their products.
>> Dr. Group: And there's --
look, there's enough stuff
out there on the internet now
where you can go
look for yourself.
Talking about toothpaste and how
many times people brush their
teeth, one of the things that
Mike and I say you have to avoid
and you have to replace
with something natural.
Fluoride is extremely damaging;
calcifies the pineal gland.
We could go all day long talking
about the damaging effects
of toothpaste and all
the fillers in there.
Mike brought some
natural replacements
and O3 essentials
toothpaste that you can use.
You could use baking soda.
You could use ozonated
olive oil works really good.
There's a many natural
clay-based toothpastes
out there, Xylitol
based toothpaste
for kids that they can use.
Look for natural, organic
alternatives on your toothpaste
and get those taken care
of as soon as possible.
>> Mike: And this
is ozonated jojoba oil
with peppermint in it,
peppermint essential oil,
so you can -- I mean, you
can imagine it tastes good
and it has all the
benefits of ozone,
which modern dentistry
is really starting to...
>> Dr. Group: Ozone's incredible
for working with the teeth.
>> Mike: All right.
Yeah, mouthwash, let's do that.
>> Dr. Group: Mouthwash.
Again, this is a
common mouthwash,
contains toxic chemicals,
dyes, fluoride.
Make sure that you switch
over to a non-toxic
mouthwash, one that's...
>> Mike: That's right.
>> Dr. Group: ...all natural
that has green tea extract
in it, freshens the breath.
These have all natural
ingredients.
It's about replacing toxic
things with non-toxic things.
>> Mike: All right.
Speaking of that, you've got
healthy shampoo here versus --
let's say not so
healthy baby shampoo.
Watch out any time
you see the word baby,
it probably has a lot
of chemicals in it.
So again, go -- read --
you know, read the
ingredients labels.
Make sure you're not buying
a little chemical concoction
that you're -- especially for
shampoo because it's hot water.
You have steam.
Your scalp is all --
the pores are opened up.
You can you know,
get this product.
It absorbs very easily
into your body.
So we're about to wrap this up,
but let me just cover
cooking pans.
>> Dr. Group: Cooking
pans, big thing.
Big thing.
>> Mike: This
is a safe pan.
It's ceramic, but
you want to watch
out for the non-stick pans.
Those surfaces are
things that offgas
chemicals that you
know, kill parakeets
and other birds in your...
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, Teflon pans,
they emit extremely
dangerous vapors.
>> Mike: Well, that's the show.
Thanks for watching Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
>> Dr. Group: It's your turn
to do a home health
makeover in your house.
[Music]